Let's talk about just my strategy,
right, for dealing with this.
We will talk to APIs later and
stuff along those lines.
But one of the questions that came up the
other days during another workshop was,
when you don't immediately have IDs for
stuff, what do you do?
And this is true.
If you're dealing with
stuff client side as well,
you need to give it unique
identifiers normally for keys.
If you're talking to an API, hopefully
your server is doing that as well.
As long as you're getting from somewhere,
it doesn't really matter.
We will eventually talk to APIs, but for
now we'll kinda see what
it looks like here.
The error, just to be clear,
we're saying it's a task where we're
obviously missing the ID, right?
Fine, could you put it in here?
Could you come up with an ID?
Could you use a library in here?
You absolutely could.
I would argue that you should not,
and this is mostly a kind of strategic
thing and a belief system
that this is your view layer,
its job is to know what
the current state is.
And to deal with user input like stuff
getting your model ready by assigning
an ID and formatting it, should not
happen in your component, right?
I believe that all of the kind
of things that create and
set up all of your state should
happen inside the reducer, right?
And so we wanna give ourselves
the primitives to make that happen.
And that way, it's all in one place, you
don't play where are all the places that I
get this thing throughout my different UI?
Having it centralized,
it is very tempting to do it here.
I have been tempted.
I've done it here before,
I have regretted it.
So I'm not doing that
while I'm being recorded.
We're gonna do it right.
So here, we have a bunch of ways, and
this involves just a little bit TypeScript
knowledge that can help us, right?
Could you just define a version
of the type that has different
optional properties?
You absolutely could.
My kind of move with TypeScript
in this case is trying
to assign stuff and
say this thing is another thing.
A lot of times doesn't work super well for
me, there's nothing wrong with it.
You can totally do it.
You can say, you can cast as a type.
I like to make functions that will say,
take a partial version of this and
fill in all the actual details
to make this a real version that
something might be expecting, right?
And one of the ways that you can do this
is there's a utility method in TypeScript
that's a partial that lets you
kinda just pick off certain things.
So what I will do a lot of times, and
I usually will not export this
type until the need arises.
If I need it in more than one place and
fine, but a lot of times, I want this to
kind of be an internal implementation
detail in my either slice or reducer or
what have you.
And I'll call it DraftTask or
something like that,
whatever the version that does not have
all the things that a real task needs.
At this point,
the simplest version that you could do is
just say it's a partial of task, right?
And if you've never seen this before
in TypeScript, this is simply saying,
take all the required properties and
make them all optional, right?
Gotta deal with why users any in a second.
But for the most part, cool.
Now, it is one way I can
actually have a draft version.
Now, that's still not going on my array.
I've just moved the problem from getting
yelled at when I change it here,
from getting yelled at when
I dispatch the action,
which again, I love that I was
immediately yelled out for that.
Now, I've moved it down one line.
And I do have an old saying,
which is as long as the error is moving,
you're making progress, right?
So I will take that because
now it's like yeah, cool.
The action can be a draft task, but you
still can't push one of those on there.
So the pattern that I really like for
this is I will a lot of times just have
a method that will take
the thing that I have and
turn it into the thing that I want.
And appease TypeScript rather than casting
it and doing all this kind of stuff,
I'll basically say something
like createTask, right?
And that will take a DraftTask.
This is one of those things where I
define the return value up front,
not because I know that TypeScript will
automatically assign the right type.
I do this even cuz it doesn't necessarily
have to be called a task as long as it
meets the requirements of a task.
I do this to make sure that
the code I write is fine, right?
It's a fun little unit test right for
me right here right now by defining
the return type as I start
to write the function.
So it's also strategy that
I really like in this case.
And this case, really,
I know that the thing that I'm
missing here is that I need an ID.
Lots of ways to do this,
Nano ID is around.
Nano ID is also included in Redux toolkit,
so you don't have to get another MPM and
import, or install rather, right?
Personally, it's like, yeah,
I'm excited to start a new thing.
And then it's like death by MPM installs
as I remember everything that I need in
a modern web app over the course
of the next several hours.
I also have it in the package JSON too.
So we can do that.
We need to basically say return,
and we can say,
everything that's on the DraftTask,
but then also make sure
that we've got an ID,
that is you can see I've got to them.
We'll just pull the one
from Redux toolkit.
Let's see.
>> You mentioned user ID
the other day in React, is that?
>> So user ID is different.
I think I have that somewhere,
maybe not in this app.
Let's talk about user IDs for
a moment cuz it's a great question.
User ID is a hook, so it's only
available to you in React components.
User ID does give you a unique value.
It is predominantly for
giving you a unique identifier that
is both consistent on server rendered
components in React as well as when
they're hydrated on the client.
For instance, for a form,
you should have an ID on the inputs, and
then the label has an HTML4, right?
But sometimes, especially if
you're generating on the server or
you have a bunch of these things,
you might not necessarily at the time have
a completely unique identifier for that.
So you can use user ID to create
an identifier for yourself, cool.
And so let's see.
I think I did this the other option,
the other order.
Because since ID could be
undefined in my partial task.
See return,
what are we getting yelled at for here?
ID, we've got string,
we got to actually say that these exist.
So really, actually,
what the DraftTask should be,
we know I got halfway there partial.
The other thing we can do is
the partial is everything's optional,
which I can combine this one.
But really, I do actually want the type
safety to make sure that I have a title.
It's like, hey, cool,
everything's optional.
You set an ID,
titles can't be optional in real tasks.
Everything else can be, or you've set
the ID, the user and the column can be.
So partial make everything optional, and
I'll build towards this in a second.
Really, what I also need is I just need
to pick certain things out too, right?
And so I could say that we do want to
pick the title off of there as well.
And I'll show you why like where I use
both of them together in a second.
So we say, pick, we say the title.
So now, this is expecting what
we've only got the title, right?
You can kind of see.
It is sometimes nice if you have some of
the other information for whatever reason.
You could imagine that maybe when
this became a full comp on board,
I already have the column, or
if it was from a user page,
I might already have the user
ready to go as well.
And so I'll show you a helper
type that I make in a second, but
let's kind of get the rest of this wired
up, and then I will show you that.
So we've got that, and
now you can see this counts as
a real task as soon as I call it.
So I can say, createTask,
pass it in that action payload.
And boom, the types are happy,
thereby I am happy.